Derives a DWI brain mask by calculating and then thresholding a sum-of-tissue-densities image
This script attempts to identify brain voxels based on the total density of macroscopic tissues as estimated through multi-tissue deconvolution. Following response function estimation and multi-tissue deconvolution, the sum of tissue densities is thresholded at a fixed value (default is 0.5), and subsequent mask image cleaning operations are performed.
The operation of this script is a subset of that performed by the script "dwibiasnormmask". Many users may find that comprehensive solution preferable; this dwi2mask algorithm is nevertheless provided to demonstrate specifically the mask estimation portion of that command.
The ODFs estimated within this optimisation procedure are by default of lower maximal spherical harmonic degree than what would be advised for analysis. This is done for computational efficiency. This behaviour can be modified through the -lmax command-line option.
ARGUMENT input 0 0 IMAGEIN
The input DWI series
ARGUMENT output 0 0 IMAGEOUT
The output mask image
OPTION -init_mask 1 0
Provide an initial brain mask, which will constrain the response function estimation (if omitted, the default dwi2mask algorithm will be used)
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION -lmax 1 0
The maximum spherical harmonic degree for the estimated FODs (see Description); defaults are "4,0,0" for multi-shell and "4,0" for single-shell data
ARGUMENT values 0 0 ISEQ
OPTION -threshold 1 0
the threshold on the total tissue density sum image used to derive the brain mask; default is 0.5
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0.0 1.0
OPTION -tissuesum 1 0
Export the tissue sum image that was used to generate the mask
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEOUT
OPTION -grad 1 0
Provide the diffusion gradient table in MRtrix format
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION -fslgrad 1 0
Provide the diffusion gradient table in FSL bvecs/bvals format
ARGUMENT bvecs 0 0 FILEIN
ARGUMENT bvals 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION -nocleanup 1 0
do not delete intermediate files during script execution, and do not delete scratch directory at script completion.
OPTION -scratch 1 0
manually specify the path in which to generate the scratch directory.
ARGUMENT /path/to/scratch/ 0 0 DIROUT
OPTION -continue 1 0
continue the script from a previous execution; must provide the scratch directory path, and the name of the last successfully-generated file.
ARGUMENT ScratchDir 0 0 VARIOUS
ARGUMENT LastFile 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION -info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION -quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status. Alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION -debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION -force 1 0
force overwrite of output files.
OPTION -nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION -config 1 0
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION -help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION -version 1 0
display version information and exit.
