Estimate response function(s) for spherical deconvolution
dwi2response offers different algorithms for performing various types of response function estimation. The name of the algorithm must appear as the first argument on the command-line after "dwi2response". The subsequent arguments and options depend on the particular algorithm being invoked.
Each algorithm available has its own help page, including necessary references; e.g. to see the help page of the "fa" algorithm, type "dwi2response fa".
More information on response function estimation for spherical deconvolution can be found at the following link: 
https://mrtrix.readthedocs.io/en/3.0.4/constrained_spherical_deconvolution/response_function_estimation.html
Note that if the -mask command-line option is not specified, the MRtrix3 command dwi2mask will automatically be called to derive an initial voxel exclusion mask. More information on mask derivation from DWI data can be found at: https://mrtrix.readthedocs.io/en/3.0.4/dwi_preprocessing/masking.html
ARGUMENT algorithm CHOICE dhollander fa manual msmt_5tt tax tournier
OPTION -grad 1 0
Provide the diffusion gradient table in MRtrix format
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION -fslgrad 1 0
Provide the diffusion gradient table in FSL bvecs/bvals format
ARGUMENT bvecs 0 0 FILEIN
ARGUMENT bvals 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION -mask 1 0
Provide an initial mask for response voxel selection
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION -voxels 1 0
Output an image showing the final voxel selection(s)
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEOUT
OPTION -shells 1 0
The b-value(s) to use in response function estimation (comma-separated list in case of multiple b-values; b=0 must be included explicitly if desired)
ARGUMENT bvalues 0 0 FSEQ
OPTION -lmax 1 0
The maximum harmonic degree(s) for response function estimation (comma-separated list in case of multiple b-values)
ARGUMENT values 0 0 ISEQ
OPTION -nocleanup 1 0
do not delete intermediate files during script execution, and do not delete scratch directory at script completion.
OPTION -scratch 1 0
manually specify the path in which to generate the scratch directory.
ARGUMENT /path/to/scratch/ 0 0 DIROUT
OPTION -continue 1 0
continue the script from a previous execution; must provide the scratch directory path, and the name of the last successfully-generated file.
ARGUMENT ScratchDir 0 0 VARIOUS
ARGUMENT LastFile 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION -info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION -quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status. Alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION -debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION -force 1 0
force overwrite of output files.
OPTION -nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION -config 1 0
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION -help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION -version 1 0
display version information and exit.
