Estimate fibre orientation distributions from diffusion data using spherical deconvolution
The spherical harmonic coefficients are stored according to the conventions described in the main documentation, which can be found at the following link: 
https://mrtrix.readthedocs.io/en/3.0.4/concepts/spherical_harmonics.html
Perform single-shell single-tissue CSD: $ dwi2fod csd dwi.mif response_wm.txt wmfod.mif  This algorithm is designed for single-shell data and only uses a single b-value. The response function text file provided should only contain a a single row, corresponding to the b-value used for CSD.
Perform multi-shell multi-tissue CSD: $ dwi2fod msmt_csd dwi.mif response_wm.txt wmfod.mif response_gm.txt gm.mif response_csf.txt csf.mif  This example is the most common use case of multi-tissue CSD, estimating a white matter FOD, and grey matter and CSF compartments. This algorithm requires at least three unique b-values to estimate three tissue compartments. Each response function text file should have a number of rows equal to the number of b-values used. If only two unique b-values are available, it's also possible to estimate only two tissue compartments, e.g., white matter and CSF.
ARGUMENT algorithm 0 0 CHOICE csd msmt_csd
the algorithm to use for FOD estimation. (options are: csd,msmt_csd)
ARGUMENT dwi 0 0 IMAGEIN
the input diffusion-weighted image
ARGUMENT response odf 0 1 
pairs of input tissue response and output ODF images
OPTION grad 1 0
Provide the diffusion-weighted gradient scheme used in the acquisition in a text file. This should be supplied as a 4xN text file with each line is in the format [ X Y Z b ], where [ X Y Z ] describe the direction of the applied gradient, and b gives the b-value in units of s/mm^2. If a diffusion gradient scheme is present in the input image header, the data provided with this option will be instead used.
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION fslgrad 1 0
Provide the diffusion-weighted gradient scheme used in the acquisition in FSL bvecs/bvals format files. If a diffusion gradient scheme is present in the input image header, the data provided with this option will be instead used.
ARGUMENT bvecs 0 0 FILEIN
ARGUMENT bvals 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION shells 1 0
specify one or more b-values to use during processing, as a comma-separated list of the desired approximate b-values (b-values are clustered to allow for small deviations). Note that some commands are incompatible with multiple b-values, and will report an error if more than one b-value is provided. 
WARNING: note that, even though the b=0 volumes are never referred to as shells in the literature, they still have to be explicitly included in the list of b-values as provided to the -shell option! Several algorithms which include the b=0 volumes in their computations may otherwise return an undesired result.
ARGUMENT b-values 0 0 FSEQ
OPTION directions 1 0
specify the directions over which to apply the non-negativity constraint (by default, the built-in 300 direction set is used). These should be supplied as a text file containing [ az el ] pairs for the directions.
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION lmax 1 0
the maximum spherical harmonic order for the output FOD(s).For algorithms with multiple outputs, this should be provided as a comma-separated list of integers, one for each output image; for single-output algorithms, only a single integer should be provided. If omitted, the command will use the lmax of the corresponding response function (i.e based on its number of coefficients), up to a maximum of 8.
ARGUMENT order 0 0 ISEQ
OPTION mask 1 0
only perform computation within the specified binary brain mask image.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION filter 1 0
the linear frequency filtering parameters used for the initial linear spherical deconvolution step (default = [ 1 1 1 0 0 ]). These should be  supplied as a text file containing the filtering coefficients for each even harmonic order.
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION neg_lambda 1 0
the regularisation parameter lambda that controls the strength of the non-negativity constraint (default = 1).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION norm_lambda 1 0
the regularisation parameter lambda that controls the strength of the constraint on the norm of the solution (default = 1).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION threshold 1 0
the threshold below which the amplitude of the FOD is assumed to be zero, expressed as an absolute amplitude (default = 0).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT -1 10
OPTION niter 1 0
the maximum number of iterations to perform for each voxel (default = 50). Use '-niter 0' for a linear unconstrained spherical deconvolution.
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 1000
OPTION norm_lambda 1 0
the regularisation parameter lambda that controls the strength of the constraint on the norm of the solution (default = 1e-10).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION neg_lambda 1 0
the regularisation parameter lambda that controls the strength of the non-negativity constraint (default = 1e-10).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION predicted_signal 1 0
output the predicted dwi image.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEOUT
OPTION strides 1 0
specify the strides of the output data in memory; either as a comma-separated list of (signed) integers, or as a template image from which the strides shall be extracted and used. The actual strides produced will depend on whether the output image format can support it.
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
