Convert a fixel-based sparse-data image into some form of scalar image
Fixel data can be reduced to voxel data in a number of ways:
- Some statistic computed across all fixel values within a voxel: mean, sum, product, min, max, absmax, magmax
- The number of fixels in each voxel: count
- Some measure of crossing-fibre organisation: complexity, sf ('single-fibre')
- A 4D directionally-encoded colour image: dec_unit, dec_scaled
- A 4D image containing all fixel data values in each voxel unmodified: none
The -weighted option deals with the case where there is some per-fixel metric of interest that you wish to collapse into a single scalar measure per voxel, but each fixel possesses a different volume, and you wish for those fixels with greater volume to have a greater influence on the calculation than fixels with lesser volume. For instance, when estimating a voxel-based measure of mean axon diameter from per-fixel mean axon diameters, a fixel's mean axon diameter should be weigthed by its relative volume within the voxel in the calculation of that voxel mean.
Fixel data are stored utilising the fixel directory format described in the main documentation, which can be found at the following link: 
https://mrtrix.readthedocs.io/en/3.0.4/fixel_based_analysis/fixel_directory_format.html
ARGUMENT fixel_in 0 0 IMAGEIN
the input fixel data file
ARGUMENT operation 0 0 CHOICE mean sum product min max absmax magmax count complexity sf dec_unit dec_scaled none
the operation to apply, one of: mean, sum, product, min, max, absmax, magmax, count, complexity, sf, dec_unit, dec_scaled, none.
ARGUMENT image_out 0 0 IMAGEOUT
the output scalar image.
OPTION number 1 0
use only the largest N fixels in calculation of the voxel-wise statistic; in the case of operation "none", output only the largest N fixels in each voxel.
ARGUMENT N 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION fill 1 0
for "none" operation, specify the value to fill when number of fixels is fewer than the maximum (default: 0.0)
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT -inf inf
OPTION weighted 1 0
weight the contribution of each fixel to the per-voxel result according to its volume.
ARGUMENT fixel_in 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
