Fixel-based analysis using connectivity-based fixel enhancement and non-parametric permutation testing
Unlike previous versions of this command, where a whole-brain tractogram file would be provided as input in order to generate the fixel-fixel connectivity matrix and smooth fixel data, this version expects to be provided with the directory path to a pre-calculated fixel-fixel connectivity matrix (likely generated using the MRtrix3 command fixelconnectivity), and for the input fixel data to have already been smoothed (likely using the MRtrix3 command fixelfilter).
Note that if the -mask option is used, the output fixel directory will still contain the same set of fixels as that present in the input fixel template, in order to retain fixel correspondence. However a consequence of this is that all fixels in the template will be initialy visible when the output fixel directory is loaded in mrview. Those fixels outside the processing mask will immediately disappear from view as soon as any data-file-based fixel colouring or thresholding is applied.
In some software packages, a column of ones is automatically added to the GLM design matrix; the purpose of this column is to estimate the "global intercept", which is the predicted value of the observed variable if all explanatory variables were to be zero. However there are rare situations where including such a column would not be appropriate for a particular experimental design. Hence, in MRtrix3 statistical inference commands, it is up to the user to determine whether or not this column of ones should be included in their design matrix, and add it explicitly if necessary. The contrast matrix must also reflect the presence of this additional column.
Fixel data are stored utilising the fixel directory format described in the main documentation, which can be found at the following link: 
https://mrtrix.readthedocs.io/en/3.0.4/fixel_based_analysis/fixel_directory_format.html
ARGUMENT in_fixel_directory 0 0 DIRIN
the fixel directory containing the data files for each subject (after obtaining fixel correspondence
ARGUMENT subjects 0 0 IMAGEIN
a text file listing the subject identifiers (one per line). This should correspond with the filenames in the fixel directory (including the file extension), and be listed in the same order as the rows of the design matrix.
ARGUMENT design 0 0 FILEIN
the design matrix
ARGUMENT contrast 0 0 FILEIN
the contrast matrix, specified as rows of weights
ARGUMENT connectivity 0 0 VARIOUS
the fixel-fixel connectivity matrix
ARGUMENT out_fixel_directory 0 0 TEXT
the output directory where results will be saved. Will be created if it does not exist
OPTION mask 1 0
provide a fixel data file containing a mask of those fixels to be used during processing
ARGUMENT file 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION notest 1 0
don't perform statistical inference; only output population statistics (effect size, stdev etc)
OPTION errors 1 0
specify nature of errors for shuffling; options are: ee,ise,both (default: ee)
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 CHOICE ee ise both
OPTION exchange_within 1 0
specify blocks of observations within each of which data may undergo restricted exchange
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION exchange_whole 1 0
specify blocks of observations that may be exchanged with one another (for independent and symmetric errors, sign-flipping will occur block-wise)
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION strong 1 0
use strong familywise error control across multiple hypotheses
OPTION nshuffles 1 0
the number of shuffles (default: 5000)
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION permutations 1 0
manually define the permutations (relabelling). The input should be a text file defining a m x n matrix, where each relabelling is defined as a column vector of size m, and the number of columns, n, defines the number of permutations. Can be generated with the palm_quickperms function in PALM (http://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki/PALM). Overrides the -nshuffles option.
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION nonstationarity 1 0
perform non-stationarity correction
OPTION skew_nonstationarity 1 0
specify the skew parameter for empirical statistic calculation (default for this command is 1)
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION nshuffles_nonstationarity 1 0
the number of shuffles to use when precomputing the empirical statistic image for non-stationarity correction (default: 5000)
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION permutations_nonstationarity 1 0
manually define the permutations (relabelling) for computing the emprical statistics for non-stationarity correction. The input should be a text file defining a m x n matrix, where each relabelling is defined as a column vector of size m, and the number of columns, n, defines the number of permutations. Can be generated with the palm_quickperms function in PALM (http://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki/PALM) Overrides the -nshuffles_nonstationarity option.
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION cfe_dh 1 0
the height increment used in the cfe integration (default: 0.1)
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0.001 1
OPTION cfe_e 1 0
cfe extent exponent (default: 2)
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 100
OPTION cfe_h 1 0
cfe height exponent (default: 3)
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 100
OPTION cfe_c 1 0
cfe connectivity exponent (default: 0.5)
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 100
OPTION cfe_legacy 1 0
use the legacy (non-normalised) form of the cfe equation
OPTION variance 1 0
define variance groups for the G-statistic; measurements for which the expected variance is equivalent should contain the same index
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION ftests 1 0
perform F-tests; input text file should contain, for each F-test, a row containing ones and zeros, where ones indicate the rows of the contrast matrix to be included in the F-test.
ARGUMENT path 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION fonly 1 0
only assess F-tests; do not perform statistical inference on entries in the contrast matrix
OPTION column 1 1
add a column to the design matrix corresponding to subject fixel-wise values (note that the contrast matrix must include an additional column for each use of this option); the text file provided via this option should contain a file name for each subject
ARGUMENT path 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
