Generate FOD-based DEC maps, with optional panchromatic sharpening and/or luminance/perception correction
By default, the FOD-based DEC is weighted by the integral of the FOD. To weight by another scalar map, use the -contrast option. This option can also be used for panchromatic sharpening, e.g., by supplying a T1 (or other sensible) anatomical volume with a higher spatial resolution.
ARGUMENT input 0 0 IMAGEIN
The input FOD image (spherical harmonic coefficients).
ARGUMENT output 0 0 IMAGEOUT
The output DEC image (weighted RGB triplets).
OPTION mask 1 0
Only perform DEC computation within the specified mask image.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION contrast 1 0
Weight the computed DEC map by the provided image contrast. If the contrast has a different image grid, the DEC map is first resliced and renormalised. To achieve panchromatic sharpening, provide an image with a higher spatial resolution than the input FOD image; e.g., a T1 anatomical volume. Only the DEC is subject to the mask, so as to allow for partial colouring of the contrast image. 
Default when this option is *not* provided: integral of input FOD, subject to the same mask/threshold as used for DEC computation.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION lum 1 0
Correct for luminance/perception, using default values Cr,Cg,Cb = 0.3,0.5,0.2 and gamma = 2.2 (*not* correcting is the theoretical equivalent of Cr,Cg,Cb = 1,1,1 and gamma = 2).
OPTION lum_coefs 1 0
The coefficients Cr,Cg,Cb to correct for luminance/perception. 
Note: this implicitly switches on luminance/perception correction, using a default gamma = 2.2 unless specified otherwise.
ARGUMENT values 0 0 FSEQ
OPTION lum_gamma 1 0
The gamma value to correct for luminance/perception. 
Note: this implicitly switches on luminance/perception correction, using a default Cr,Cg,Cb = 0.3,0.5,0.2 unless specified otherwise.
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT -inf inf
OPTION threshold 1 0
FOD amplitudes below the threshold value are considered zero.
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT -inf inf
OPTION no_weight 1 0
Do not weight the DEC map; just output the unweighted colours. Reslicing and renormalising of colours will still happen when providing the -contrast option as a template.
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
