Multi-tissue informed log-domain intensity normalisation
This command takes as input any number of tissue components (e.g. from multi-tissue CSD) and outputs corresponding normalised tissue components corrected for the effects of (residual) intensity inhomogeneities. Intensity normalisation is performed by optimising the voxel-wise sum of all tissue compartments towards a constant value, under constraints of spatial smoothness (polynomial basis of a given order). Different to the Raffelt et al. 2017 abstract, this algorithm performs this task in the log-domain instead, with added gradual outlier rejection, different handling of the balancing factors between tissue compartments and a different iteration structure.
The -mask option is mandatory and is optimally provided with a brain mask (such as the one obtained from dwi2mask earlier in the processing pipeline). Outlier areas with exceptionally low or high combined tissue contributions are accounted for and reoptimised as the intensity inhomogeneity estimation becomes more accurate.
Default usage (for 3-tissue CSD compartments): $ mtnormalise wmfod.mif wmfod_norm.mif gm.mif gm_norm.mif csf.mif csf_norm.mif -mask mask.mif  Note how for each tissue compartment, the input and output images are provided as a consecutive pair.
ARGUMENT input output 0 1 VARIOUS
list of all input and output tissue compartment files (see example usage).
OPTION mask 0 0
the mask defines the data used to compute the intensity normalisation. This option is mandatory.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION order 1 0
the maximum order of the polynomial basis used to fit the normalisation field in the log-domain. An order of 0 is equivalent to not allowing spatial variance of the intensity normalisation factor. (default: 3)
ARGUMENT number 0 0 CHOICE 0 1 2 3
OPTION niter 1 0
set the number of iterations. The first (and potentially only) entry applies to the main loop. If supplied as a comma-separated list of integers, the second entry applies to the inner loop to update the balance factors (default: 15,7).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 ISEQ
OPTION reference 1 0
specify the (positive) reference value to which the summed tissue compartments will be normalised. (default: 0.282095, SH DC term for unit angular integral)
ARGUMENT number 0 0 FLOAT 2.22507e-308 inf
OPTION balanced 1 0
incorporate the per-tissue balancing factors into scaling of the output images (NOTE: use of this option has critical consequences for AFD intensity normalisation; should not be used unless these consequences are fully understood)
OPTION check_norm 1 0
output the final estimated spatially varying intensity level that is used for normalisation.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEOUT
OPTION check_mask 1 0
output the final mask used to compute the normalisation. This mask excludes regions identified as outliers by the optimisation process.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEOUT
OPTION check_factors 1 0
output the tissue balance factors computed during normalisation.
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEOUT
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
