Calculate the mean response function from a set of text files
All response function files provided must contain the same number of unique b-values (lines), as well as the same number of coefficients per line.
As long as the number of unique b-values is identical across all input files, the coefficients will be averaged. This is performed on the assumption that the actual acquired b-values are identical. This is however impossible for the responsemean command to determine based on the data provided; it is therefore up to the user to ensure that this requirement is satisfied.
Usage where all response functions are in the same directory:: $ responsemean input_response1.txt input_response2.txt input_response3.txt output_average_response.txt
Usage selecting response functions within a directory using a wildcard:: $ responsemean input_response*.txt output_average_response.txt
Usage where data for each participant reside in a participant-specific directory:: $ responsemean subject-*/response.txt output_average_response.txt
ARGUMENT inputs 0 1 FILEIN
The input response function files
ARGUMENT output 0 0 FILEOUT
The output mean response function file
OPTION -legacy 1 0
Use the legacy behaviour of former command "average_response": average response function coefficients directly, without compensating for global magnitude differences between input files
OPTION -nocleanup 1 0
do not delete intermediate files during script execution, and do not delete scratch directory at script completion.
OPTION -scratch 1 0
manually specify the path in which to generate the scratch directory.
ARGUMENT /path/to/scratch/ 0 0 DIROUT
OPTION -continue 1 0
continue the script from a previous execution; must provide the scratch directory path, and the name of the last successfully-generated file.
ARGUMENT ScratchDir 0 0 VARIOUS
ARGUMENT LastFile 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION -info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION -quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status. Alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION -debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION -force 1 0
force overwrite of output files.
OPTION -nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION -config 1 0
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION -help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION -version 1 0
display version information and exit.
