Perform the Track-Weighted Dynamic Functional Connectivity (TW-dFC) method
This command generates a Track-Weighted Image (TWI), where the contribution from each streamline to the image is the Pearson correlation between the fMRI time series at the streamline endpoints.
The output image can be generated in one of two ways (note that one of these two command-line options MUST be provided): 
- "Static" functional connectivity (-static option): Each streamline contributes to a static 3D output image based on the correlation between the signals at the streamline endpoints using the entirety of the input time series.
- "Dynamic" functional connectivity (-dynamic option): The output image is a 4D image, with the same number of volumes as the input fMRI time series. For each volume, the contribution from each streamline is calculated based on a finite-width sliding time window, centred at the timepoint corresponding to that volume.
Note that the -backtrack option in this command is similar, but not precisely equivalent, to back-tracking as can be used with Anatomically-Constrained Tractography (ACT) in the tckgen command. However, here the feature does not change the streamlines trajectories in any way; it simply enables detection of the fact that the input fMRI image may not contain a valid timeseries underneath the streamline endpoint, and where this occurs, searches from the streamline endpoint inwards along the streamline trajectory in search of a valid timeseries to sample from the input image.
ARGUMENT tracks 0 0 FILEIN
the input track file.
ARGUMENT fmri 0 0 IMAGEIN
the pre-processed fMRI time series
ARGUMENT output 0 0 IMAGEOUT
the output TW-dFC image
OPTION static 1 0
generate a "static" (3D) output image.
OPTION dynamic 1 0
generate a "dynamic" (4D) output image; must additionally provide the shape and width (in volumes) of the sliding window.
ARGUMENT shape 0 0 CHOICE rectangle triangle cosine hann hamming lanczos
ARGUMENT width 0 0 INT 3 9223372036854775807
OPTION template 1 0
an image file to be used as a template for the output (the output image will have the same transform and field of view).
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION vox 1 0
provide either an isotropic voxel size (in mm), or comma-separated list of 3 voxel dimensions.
ARGUMENT size 0 0 FSEQ
OPTION stat_vox 1 0
define the statistic for choosing the final voxel intensities for a given contrast type given the individual values from the tracks passing through each voxel
Options are: sum, min, mean, max (default: mean)
ARGUMENT type 0 0 CHOICE sum min mean max
OPTION backtrack 1 0
if no valid timeseries is found at the streamline endpoint, back-track along the streamline trajectory until a valid timeseries is found
OPTION upsample 1 0
upsample the tracks by some ratio using Hermite interpolation before mapping (if omitted, an appropriate ratio will be determined automatically)
ARGUMENT factor 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
