Perform streamlines tractography
By default, tckgen produces a fixed number of streamlines, by attempting to seed from new random locations until the target number of streamlines have been selected (in other words, after all inclusion & exclusion criteria have been applied), or the maximum number of seeds has been exceeded (by default, this is 1000 x the desired number of selected streamlines). Use the -select and/or -seeds options to modify as required. See also the Seeding options section for alternative seeding strategies.
Below is a list of available tracking algorithms, the input image data that they require, and a brief description of their behaviour:
- FACT: Fiber Assigned by Continuous Tracking. A deterministic algorithm that takes as input a 4D image, with 3xN volumes, where N is the maximum number of fiber orientations in a voxel. Each triplet of volumes represents a 3D vector corresponding to a fiber orientation; the length of the vector additionally indicates some measure of density or anisotropy. As streamlines move from one voxel to another, the fiber orientation most collinear with the streamline orientation is selected (i.e. there is no intra-voxel interpolation).
- iFOD1: First-order Integration over Fiber Orientation Distributions. A probabilistic algorithm that takes as input a Fiber Orientation Distribution (FOD) image represented in the Spherical Harmonic (SH) basis. At each streamline step, random samples from the local (trilinear interpolated) FOD are taken. A streamline is more probable to follow orientations where the FOD amplitude is large; but it may also rarely traverse orientations with small FOD amplitude.
- iFOD2 (default): Second-order Integration over Fiber Orientation Distributions. A probabilistic algorithm that takes as input a Fiber Orientation Distribution (FOD) image represented in the Spherical Harmonic (SH) basis. Candidate streamline paths (based on short curved "arcs") are drawn, and the underlying (trilinear-interpolated) FOD amplitudes along those arcs are sampled. A streamline is more probable to follow a path where the FOD amplitudes along that path are large; but it may also rarely traverse orientations where the FOD amplitudes are small, as long as the amplitude remains above the FOD amplitude threshold along the entire path.
- NullDist1 / NullDist2: Null Distribution tracking algorithms. These probabilistic algorithms expect as input the same image that was used when invoking the corresponding algorithm for which the null distribution is sought. These algorithms generate streamlines based on random orientation samples; that is, no image information relating to fiber orientations is used, and streamlines trajectories are determined entirely from random sampling. The NullDist2 algorithm is designed to be used in conjunction with iFOD2; NullDist1 should be used in conjunction with any first-order algorithm.
- SD_STREAM: Streamlines tractography based on Spherical Deconvolution (SD). A deterministic algorithm that takes as input a Fiber Orientation Distribution (FOD) image represented in the Spherical Harmonic (SH) basis. At each streamline step, the local (trilinear-interpolated) FOD is sampled, and from the current streamline tangent orientation, a Newton optimisation on the sphere is performed in order to locate the orientation of the nearest FOD amplitude peak.
- SeedTest: A dummy streamlines algorithm used for testing streamline seeding mechanisms. Any image can be used as input; the image will not be used in any way. For each seed point generated by the seeding mechanism(s), a streamline containing a single point corresponding to that seed location will be written to the output track file.
- Tensor_Det: A deterministic algorithm that takes as input a 4D diffusion-weighted image (DWI) series. At each streamline step, the diffusion tensor is fitted to the local (trilinear-interpolated) diffusion data, and the streamline trajectory is determined as the principal eigenvector of that tensor.
- Tensor_Prob: A probabilistic algorithm that takes as input a 4D diffusion-weighted image (DWI) series. Within each image voxel, a residual bootstrap is performed to obtain a unique realisation of the DWI data in that voxel for each streamline. These data are then sampled via trilinear interpolation at each streamline step, the diffusion tensor model is fitted, and the streamline follows the orientation of the principal eigenvector of that tensor.
Note that the behaviour of the -angle option varies slightly depending on the order of integration: for any first-order method, this angle corresponds to the deviation in streamline trajectory per step; for higher-order methods, this corresponds to the change in underlying fibre orientation between the start and end points of each step.
ARGUMENT source 0 0 IMAGEIN
The image containing the source data. The type of image data required depends on the algorithm used (see Description section).
ARGUMENT tracks 0 0 TRACKSOUT
the output file containing the tracks generated.
OPTION algorithm 1 0
specify the tractography algorithm to use. Valid choices are: FACT, iFOD1, iFOD2, Nulldist1, Nulldist2, SD_Stream, Seedtest, Tensor_Det, Tensor_Prob (default: iFOD2).
ARGUMENT name 0 0 CHOICE fact ifod1 ifod2 nulldist1 nulldist2 sd_stream seedtest tensor_det tensor_prob
OPTION select 1 0
set the desired number of streamlines to be selected by tckgen, after all selection criteria have been applied (i.e. inclusion/exclusion ROIs, min/max length, etc). tckgen will keep seeding streamlines until this number of streamlines have been selected, or the maximum allowed number of seeds has been exceeded (see -seeds option). By default, 5000 streamlines are to be selected. Set to zero to disable, which will result in streamlines being seeded until the number specified by -seeds has been reached.
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION step 1 0
set the step size of the algorithm in mm (defaults: for first-order algorithms, 0.1 x voxelsize; if using RK4, 0.25 x voxelsize; for iFOD2: 0.5 x voxelsize).
ARGUMENT size 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION angle 1 0
set the maximum angle in degrees between successive steps (defaults: 60 for deterministic algorithms; 15 for iFOD1 / nulldist1; 45 for iFOD2 / nulldist2)
ARGUMENT theta 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION minlength 1 0
set the minimum length of any track in mm (defaults: without ACT, 5 x voxelsize; with ACT, 2 x voxelsize).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION maxlength 1 0
set the maximum length of any track in mm (default: 100 x voxelsize).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION cutoff 1 0
set the FOD amplitude / fixel size / tensor FA cutoff for terminating tracks (defaults: 0.1 for FOD-based algorithms; 0.1 for fixel-based algorithms; 0.1 for tensor-based algorithms; threshold multiplied by 0.5 when using ACT).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION trials 1 0
set the maximum number of sampling trials at each point (only used for iFOD1 / iFOD2) (default: 1000).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION noprecomputed 1 0
do NOT pre-compute legendre polynomial values. Warning: this will slow down the algorithm by a factor of approximately 4.
OPTION rk4 1 0
use 4th-order Runge-Kutta integration (slower, but eliminates curvature overshoot in 1st-order deterministic methods)
OPTION stop 1 0
stop propagating a streamline once it has traversed all include regions
OPTION downsample 1 0
downsample the generated streamlines to reduce output file size (default is (samples-1) for iFOD2, no downsampling for all other algorithms)
ARGUMENT factor 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION seed_image 1 1
seed streamlines entirely at random within a mask image 
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION seed_sphere 1 1
spherical seed as four comma-separated values (XYZ position and radius)
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 FSEQ
OPTION seed_random_per_voxel 1 1
seed a fixed number of streamlines per voxel in a mask image; random placement of seeds in each voxel
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
ARGUMENT num_per_voxel 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION seed_grid_per_voxel 1 1
seed a fixed number of streamlines per voxel in a mask image; place seeds on a 3D mesh grid (grid_size argument is per axis; so a grid_size of 3 results in 27 seeds per voxel)
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
ARGUMENT grid_size 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION seed_rejection 1 1
seed from an image using rejection sampling (higher values = more probable to seed from)
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION seed_gmwmi 1 1
seed from the grey matter - white matter interface (only valid if using ACT framework). Input image should be a 3D seeding volume; seeds drawn within this image will be optimised to the interface using the 5TT image provided using the -act option.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION seed_dynamic 1 0
determine seed points dynamically using the SIFT model (must not provide any other seeding mechanism). Note that while this seeding mechanism improves the distribution of reconstructed streamlines density, it should NOT be used as a substitute for the SIFT method itself.
ARGUMENT fod_image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION seeds 1 0
set the number of seeds that tckgen will attempt to track from. If this option is NOT provided, the default number of seeds is set to 1000× the number of selected streamlines. If -select is NOT also specified, tckgen will continue tracking until this number of seeds has been attempted. However, if -select is also specified, tckgen will stop when the number of seeds attempted reaches the number specified here, OR when the number of streamlines selected reaches the number requested with the -select option. This can be used to prevent the program from running indefinitely when no or very few streamlines can be found that match the selection criteria. Setting this to zero will cause tckgen to keep attempting seeds until the number specified by -select has been reached.
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION max_attempts_per_seed 1 0
set the maximum number of times that the tracking algorithm should attempt to find an appropriate tracking direction from a given seed point. This should be set high enough to ensure that an actual plausible seed point is not discarded prematurely as being unable to initiate tracking from. Higher settings may affect performance if many seeds are genuinely impossible to track from, as many attempts will still be made in vain for such seeds. (default: 1000)
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 1 9223372036854775807
OPTION seed_cutoff 1 0
set the minimum FA or FOD amplitude for seeding tracks (default is the same as the normal -cutoff).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION seed_unidirectional 1 0
track from the seed point in one direction only (default is to track in both directions).
OPTION seed_direction 1 0
specify a seeding direction for the tracking (this should be supplied as a vector of 3 comma-separated values.
ARGUMENT dir 0 0 FSEQ
OPTION output_seeds 1 0
output the seed location of all successful streamlines to a file
ARGUMENT path 0 0 FILEOUT
OPTION include 1 1
specify an inclusion region of interest, as either a binary mask image, or as a sphere using 4 comma-separared values (x,y,z,radius). Streamlines must traverse ALL inclusion regions to be accepted.
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION include_ordered 1 1
specify an inclusion region of interest, as either a binary mask image, or as a sphere using 4 comma-separared values (x,y,z,radius). Streamlines must traverse ALL inclusion_ordered regions in the order they are specified in order to be accepted.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 TEXT
OPTION exclude 1 1
specify an exclusion region of interest, as either a binary mask image, or as a sphere using 4 comma-separared values (x,y,z,radius). Streamlines that enter ANY exclude region will be discarded.
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION mask 1 1
specify a masking region of interest, as either a binary mask image, or as a sphere using 4 comma-separared values (x,y,z,radius). If defined, streamlines exiting the mask will be truncated.
ARGUMENT spec 0 0 VARIOUS
OPTION act 1 0
use the Anatomically-Constrained Tractography framework during tracking; provided image must be in the 5TT (five-tissue-type) format
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION backtrack 1 0
allow tracks to be truncated and re-tracked if a poor structural termination is encountered
OPTION crop_at_gmwmi 1 0
crop streamline endpoints more precisely as they cross the GM-WM interface
OPTION power 1 0
raise the FOD to the power specified (defaults are: 1.0 for iFOD1; 1.0/nsamples for iFOD2).
ARGUMENT value 0 0 FLOAT 0 inf
OPTION samples 1 0
set the number of FOD samples to take per step (Default: 4).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 2 100
OPTION grad 1 0
Provide the diffusion-weighted gradient scheme used in the acquisition in a text file. This should be supplied as a 4xN text file with each line is in the format [ X Y Z b ], where [ X Y Z ] describe the direction of the applied gradient, and b gives the b-value in units of s/mm^2. If a diffusion gradient scheme is present in the input image header, the data provided with this option will be instead used.
ARGUMENT file 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION fslgrad 1 0
Provide the diffusion-weighted gradient scheme used in the acquisition in FSL bvecs/bvals format files. If a diffusion gradient scheme is present in the input image header, the data provided with this option will be instead used.
ARGUMENT bvecs 0 0 FILEIN
ARGUMENT bvals 0 0 FILEIN
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
