Sample values of an associated image along tracks
By default, the value of the underlying image at each point along the track is written to either an ASCII file (with all values for each track on the same line), or a track scalar file (.tsf). Alternatively, some statistic can be taken from the values along each streamline and written to a vector file.
ARGUMENT tracks 0 0 TRACKSIN
the input track file
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
the image to be sampled
ARGUMENT values 0 0 FILEOUT
the output sampled values
OPTION stat_tck 1 0
compute some statistic from the values along each streamline (options are: mean,median,min,max)
ARGUMENT statistic 0 0 CHOICE mean median min max
OPTION nointerp 1 0
do not use trilinear interpolation when sampling image values
OPTION precise 1 0
use the precise mechanism for mapping streamlines to voxels (obviates the need for trilinear interpolation) (only applicable if some per-streamline statistic is requested)
OPTION use_tdi_fraction 1 0
each streamline is assigned a fraction of the image intensity in each voxel based on the fraction of the track density contributed by that streamline (this is only appropriate for processing a whole-brain tractogram, and images for which the quantiative parameter is additive)
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
