Convert between different representations of a non-linear warp
A deformation field is defined as an image where each voxel defines the corresponding position in the other image (in scanner space coordinates). A displacement field stores the displacements (in mm) to the other image from the each voxel's position (in scanner space). The warpfull file is the 5D format output from mrregister -nl_warp_full, which contains linear transforms, warps and their inverses that map each image to a midway space.
ARGUMENT in 0 0 IMAGEIN
the input warp image.
ARGUMENT type 0 0 CHOICE deformation2displacement displacement2deformation warpfull2deformation warpfull2displacement
the conversion type required. Valid choices are: deformation2displacement, displacement2deformation, warpfull2deformation, warpfull2displacement
ARGUMENT out 0 0 IMAGEOUT
the output warp image.
OPTION template 1 0
define a template image when converting a warpfull file (which is defined on a grid in the midway space between image 1 & 2). For example to generate the deformation field that maps image1 to image2, then supply image2 as the template image
ARGUMENT image 0 0 IMAGEIN
OPTION midway_space 1 0
to be used only with warpfull2deformation and warpfull2displacement conversion types. The output will only contain the non-linear warp to map an input image to the midway space (defined by the warpfull grid). If a linear transform exists in the warpfull file header then it will be composed and included in the output.
OPTION from 1 0
to be used only with warpfull2deformation and warpfull2displacement conversion types. Used to define the direction of the desired output field.Use -from 1 to obtain the image1->image2 field and from 2 for image2->image1. Can be used in combination with the -midway_space option to produce a field that only maps to midway space.
ARGUMENT image 0 0 INT 1 2
OPTION info 1 0
display information messages.
OPTION quiet 1 0
do not display information messages or progress status; alternatively, this can be achieved by setting the MRTRIX_QUIET environment variable to a non-empty string.
OPTION debug 1 0
display debugging messages.
OPTION force 1 0
force overwrite of output files (caution: using the same file as input and output might cause unexpected behaviour).
OPTION nthreads 1 0
use this number of threads in multi-threaded applications (set to 0 to disable multi-threading).
ARGUMENT number 0 0 INT 0 9223372036854775807
OPTION config 1 1
temporarily set the value of an MRtrix config file entry.
ARGUMENT key 0 0 TEXT
ARGUMENT value 0 0 TEXT
OPTION help 1 0
display this information page and exit.
OPTION version 1 0
display version information and exit.
